.TH l7205_bi 8 "\n[year]-\n[mo]-\n[dy]", Lineo "Lineo USBD Developer's Guide"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
insmod l7205_bi [dbg=
.I dbgstring
]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
.PP
This module is a 
.I Bus Interface
driver for the LinkupSys L7205 and L7210.
.\"
.PP
.SH MODULE PARAMETERS
.\"
The following parameters can be set at the time this module is loaded:
.\"
.\"
.TP
dbg
This parameter as the format of a colon-separated list of debug levels for
various items. There is a sample: dbg="2:init=3:rx" This example sets the
default debug level to 2 (normally it is 0), the debug level to 3 for the
init (setup) phase and the debug level for rx to 1 (instead of 2, the
default set earlier). The exact meaning of the debug output can be
determined by comparing the debug output to the source code. By default,
this information goes to the console. This behaviour may be changed by
appropriate setup of klog(8)and syslog(8)


.SH LIMITATIONS
.\"
.PP
There are several hardware deficencies with the LinkupSys L7205 and L7210
implementation.
.\"
.TP
limited endpoints
There are only four endpoints, with fixed endpoint addresses.
.RS
.TP
endpoint 0
This is used as the control endpoint. It has a maximum 32 byte packet size. 
.TP
endpoint 1
This only supports Bulk OUT transfers with a maximum packet size of 32 bytes.
.TP
endpoint 2
This only supports Bulk IN transfers with a maximum packet size of 32 bytes.
.TP
endpoint 3
This only supports Interrupt transfers with a maximum packet size of 32 bytes.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\"
.PP
Both the L7205 and L7210 have severe hardware problems. 
.\"
.PP
The L7205 and L7210 have problems dealing with packets that are not the
almost full sized. This is due to memory access coherency issues when
filling or emptying the FIFOs. The packetsize must be specified as 32
bytes. The only sizes that can be sent or received successfully are
29, 30, 31 and 32 bytes. Only 
.I Function 
drivers that support a safe and padded encapsulation can be used (i.e. CRC
plus padding to keep the sent packet sizes to one of the supported sizes).
.\"
.SH LINUX CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Stuart Lynne <sl@lineo.com>
.TP
Bruce Balden <balden@lineo.com>
.TP
Tom Rushworth <tbr@lineo.com>
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
usbdbus(7), usbdfunc(7), usbd(8), usbdcore(8)
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Specification, Revision 2.0
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Class Definitions for Communications Devices, Version 1.1

