.TH sl11_bi 8 "\n[year]-\n[mo]-\n[dy]", Lineo "Lineo USBD Developer's Guide"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
insmod sl11_bi [dbg=
.I dbgstring
]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
.PP
This module is a 
.I Bus Interface
driver for the ScanLogic SL11S.
.\"
.PP
.SH MODULE PARAMETERS
.\"
The following parameters can be set at the time this module is loaded:
.\"
.\"
.TP
dbg
This parameter as the format of a colon-separated list of debug levels for
various items. There is a sample: dbg="2:init=3:rx" This example sets the
default debug level to 2 (normally it is 0), the debug level to 3 for the
init (setup) phase and the debug level for rx to 1 (instead of 2, the
default set earlier). The exact meaning of the debug output can be
determined by comparing the debug output to the source code. By default,
this information goes to the console. This behaviour may be changed by
appropriate setup of klog(8)and syslog(8)


.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\"
.PP
On the SL11S ISA prototype board IO is done with 
.I inb/outb to low ISA ports.
These are very slow on the x86 architecture, about 1ms each. The result
is that the system cannot empty or fill the SL11 FIFOs fast enough to 
get the best throughput. Typical speed for network file transfers is about
400kbytes/second (compared to about 900kbytes/second theoretical max).
.PP
On the SL11S ISA prototype board the probe routine sometimes fails to
find and initialize the device.
.PP
On the SL11S ISA prototype board the interrupt register sometimes fails to
clear properly.
.\"
.SH LINUX CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Stuart Lynne <sl@lineo.com>
.TP
Bruce Balden <balden@lineo.com>
.TP
Tom Rushworth <tbr@lineo.com>
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
usbdbus(7), usbdfunc(7), usbd(8), usbdcore(8)
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Specification, Revision 2.0
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Class Definitions for Communications Devices, Version 1.1

