.TH usbdmonitor 8 "\n[year]-\n[mo]-\n[dy]", Lineo "Lineo USBD Developer's Guide"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.TP
insmod usbdmonitor
.\"
.TP
/etc/hotplug/usbd.agent
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
.PP
This module is a 
.I Monitor
for the 
.I USB Device.
It performs two functions:
.\"
.RS
.TP
Monitor for Cable Connection Events
When the 
.SM USB
cable is 
.I connected 
or
.I dis-connected
the 
.I USB Device Monitor
will invoke a
.I hotplug
script to load or unload the required 
.I USB Device 
modules.
.TP
Handle Power Management Events
When a power management event is received the
.I USB Device Monitor
will invoke a 
.I hotplug
script to load or unload the required 
.I USB Device 
modules.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.SH HOTPLUG AGENT
.PP
The 
.I hotplug
agent script
.I /etc/hotplug/usbd.agent
is called with two parameters:
.RS
.TP
INTERFACE = monitor
.\"
.TP
ACTION = load
Load required modules.
.TP
ACTION = suspend
Unload any modules for power management suspend.
.TP
ACTION = restore-loaded
Reload any modules for power management restore.
.TP
ACTION = restore-unloaded
Unload any modules not already unloaded for power management suspend.
.TP
ACTION = unload
Unload all modules.
.\"
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH LINUX CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Stuart Lynne <sl@lineo.com>
.TP
Bruce Balden <balden@lineo.com>
.TP
Tom Rushworth <tbr@lineo.com>
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
usbdbus(7), usbdfunc(7), usbd(8), usbdcore(8)
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Specification, Revision 2.0
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Class Definitions for Communications Devices, Version 1.1

