.TH usbdcore 8 "\n[year]-\n[mo]-\n[dy]", Lineo "Lineo USBD Developer's Guide"
.SH SYNPOSIS
.B usbdcore 
[maxstrings=20] [dbg=
.I dbgstring
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The usbdcore module is the foundation of USB support. Its roles are to pass data between the bus interface (low) and function (high) layer modules, and to provide the enumeration services. 
.PP
The usbdcore module should be loaded first because the other modules need its services.
.PP
Next, load the modules for any functions (network, serial, etc) to be made available to the host
.PP
Finally load the bus interface driver.  After that, the device will respond to an enumeration request from the host.
.\"
.\"
.SH LINUX CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.PP
These compilation parameters can be used to control the detailed behaviour of the net module.
.\"
.\"
.TP 
CONFIG_USBD_VENDORID
This 
.I hex 
parameter can be used to set the
.I idVendor 
device descriptor value.  Specific architectures with a known vendor id are pre-set (itsy, calypso, collie, iris).
.\"
.\"
.TP 
CONFIG_USD_NET_PRODUCTID
This 
.I hex 
parameter can be used to set the
.I idProduct 
device descriptor value.  Specific architectures with a known product id are pre-set (itsy, calypso, collie, iris).
.\"
.\"
.TP
CONFIG_USBD_PRODUCT_NAME
This 
.I string 
parameter is used to set the 
.I iProduct
device descriptor value.
.\"
.\"
.TP
CONFIG_USBD_MANUFACTURER
This 
.I string 
parameter is used to set the
.I iManufacturer
device descriptor value.
.\"
.\"
.TP
CONFIG_USBD_USE_SERIAL_NUMBER
This 
.I boolean 
parameter controls generation of a serial number for the 
.I iSerialNumber
device descriptor value.
.\"
.\"
.TP
CONFIG_USBD_SERIAL_NUMBER_STR
This 
.I string 
paramter is used to set the
.I iSerialNumber
device descriptor value.
.\"
.\"
.TP
CONFIG_USBD_SELFPOWERED
This 
.I boolean
parameter must be set if your device is self-powered.
.\"
.\"
.TP
CONFIG_USBD_MAXPOWER
This
.I int
parameter must be set to a non-zero value if your device is not self-powered.
The value is the power draw in milli-amps (mA).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULE LOAD PARAMETERS
For ordinary use, no parameters are needed. However, the following module parameters are supported:
.P
The 
.I maxstrings
parameter defines how many different strings can ever be sent over the bus 
during enumeration.
.P
The parameter
.I dbg
parameter is only needed to produce debug output. It is quite flexible and
its format is described more fully in the source code. 

.SH LINUX CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Stuart Lynne <sl@lineo.com>
.TP
Bruce Balden <balden@lineo.com>
.TP
Tom Rushworth <tbr@lineo.com>
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
usbdbus(7), usbdfunc(7), usbd(8), usbdcore(8)
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Specification, Revision 2.0
.PP
Universal Serial Bus Class Definitions for Communications Devices, Version 1.1
.\"
